system/autoware_error_monitor/README.md, before:

# autoware_error_monitor

## Purpose

Autoware Error Monitor has two main functions.

1. It is to judge the system hazard level from the aggregated diagnostic information of each module of Autoware.
2. It enables automatic recovery from the emergency state.

## Inner-workings / Algorithms

### State Transition

```plantuml
@startuml
hide empty description

state "Not Emergency" as N
state "Emergency" as E

[*] --> N

N -down-> E : found critical errors
E -up-> N : emergency status is cleared

note right of E
  If the emergency hold is enabled, a service call is required to clear the emergency status.
  If not, the emergency status will automatically clear when errors recover.
end note

@enduml
```

### updateEmergencyHoldingCondition Flow Chart

```plantuml
@startuml
title updateEmergencyHoldingCondition Flow Chart


(*) --> "Check emergency holding condition"
note right : emergency_holding is initialized with false

if "" then
  -->[false] "emergency is not held"
  else
  -->[true] "Check use emergency hold condition"
endif

if "" then
  -->[true] "emergency is held"
  else
  -->[false] "Check emergency condition"
endif

if "" then
  -->[false] "emergency is not held"
  else
  -->[true] "Check auto recovery setting"
endif

if "" then
  -->[not approved auto recovery] "emergency is held"
  else
  -->[approved auto recovery] "Check Emergency Duration"
endif

if "" then
  -->[within recovery timeout] "emergency is not held"
  else
  -->[over recovery timeout] "Check Control Mode"
endif

if "" then
  -->[autonomous driving] "emergency is held"
  else
  -->[manual driving] "Check use emergency hold in manual driving condition"
endif

if "" then
  -->[true] "emergency is held"
  else
  -->[false] "emergency is not held"
endif

@enduml
```

## Inputs / Outputs

### Input

| Name                           | Type                                       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `/diagnostics_agg`             | `diagnostic_msgs::msg::DiagnosticArray`    | Diagnostic information aggregated based [diagnostic_aggregator setting](https://github.com/tier4/autoware.iv/tree/main/system/autoware_error_monitor/config/diagnostic_aggregator) is used to |
| `/autoware/state`              | `autoware_system_msgs::msg::AutowareState` | Required to ignore error during Route, Planning and Finalizing.                                                                                                                               |
| `/control/current_gate_mode`   | `autoware_control_msgs::msg::GateMode`     | Required to select the appropriate module from `autonomous_driving` or `external_control`                                                                                                     |
| `/vehicle/status/control_mode` | `autoware_vehicle_msgs::msg::ControlMode`  | Required to not hold emergency during manual driving                                                                                                                                          |

### Output

| Name                              | Type                                             | Description                                                                          |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `/system/emergency/hazard_status` | `autoware_system_msgs::msg::HazardStatusStamped` | HazardStatus contains system hazard level, emergency hold status and failure details |
| `/diagnostics_err`                | `diagnostic_msgs::msg::DiagnosticArray`          | This has the same contents as HazardStatus. This is used for visualization           |

## Parameters

### Node Parameters

| Name                         | Type   | Default Value | Explanation                                                                                                                                               |
| ---------------------------- | ------ | ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ignore_missing_diagnostics` | bool   | `false`       | If this parameter is turned off, it will be ignored if required modules have not been received.                                                           |
| `add_leaf_diagnostics`       | bool   | `true`        | Required to use children diagnostics.                                                                                                                     |
| `diag_timeout_sec`           | double | `1.0` (sec)   | If required diagnostic is not received for a `diag_timeout_sec`, the diagnostic state become STALE state.                                                 |
| `data_ready_timeout`         | double | `30.0`        | If input topics required for autoware_error_monitor are not available for `data_ready_timeout` seconds, autoware_state will translate to emergency state. |

### Core Parameters

| Name                                   | Type   | Default Value | Explanation                                                                                           |
| -------------------------------------- | ------ | ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `hazard_recovery_timeout`              | double | `5.0`         | The vehicle can recovery to normal driving if emergencies disappear during `hazard_recovery_timeout`. |
| `use_emergency_hold`                   | bool   | `false`       | If it is false, the vehicle will return to normal as soon as emergencies disappear.                   |
| `use_emergency_hold_in_manual_driving` | bool   | `false`       | If this parameter is turned off, emergencies will be ignored during manual driving.                   |
| `emergency_hazard_level`               | int    | `2`           | If hazard_level is more than emergency_hazard_level, autoware state will translate to emergency state |

## Assumptions / Known limits

TBD.

Commit message:

Change autoware_error_monitor config format (#2244)
* Change autoware_error_monitor config file

use automatically_declare_parameters_from_overrides

Change yaml format

replace default value

move nodeoption to core

simplify parameter splitting code

use set

fix to use at function

merge for loop

add explanation for new format

fix default value

replace DiagLevel

Update system/autoware_error_monitor/src/autoware_error_monitor_core.cpp

Co-authored-by: Kazuki Miyahara <kmiya@outlook.com>

Update system/autoware_error_monitor/src/autoware_error_monitor_core.cpp

Co-authored-by: Kazuki Miyahara <kmiya@outlook.com>

use fmt

change to use uniform initialization

* Change autoware_error_monitor config file

* Fix format

Signed-off-by: Kenji Miyake <kenji.miyake@tier4.jp>

Co-authored-by: Kenji Miyake <kenji.miyake@tier4.jp>

system/autoware_error_monitor/README.md, after:

# autoware_error_monitor

## Purpose

Autoware Error Monitor has two main functions.

1. It is to judge the system hazard level from the aggregated diagnostic information of each module of Autoware.
2. It enables automatic recovery from the emergency state.

## Inner-workings / Algorithms

### State Transition

```plantuml
@startuml
hide empty description

state "Not Emergency" as N
state "Emergency" as E

[*] --> N

N -down-> E : found critical errors
E -up-> N : emergency status is cleared

note right of E
  If the emergency hold is enabled, a service call is required to clear the emergency status.
  If not, the emergency status will automatically clear when errors recover.
end note

@enduml
```

### updateEmergencyHoldingCondition Flow Chart

```plantuml
@startuml
title updateEmergencyHoldingCondition Flow Chart


(*) --> "Check emergency holding condition"
note right : emergency_holding is initialized with false

if "" then
  -->[false] "emergency is not held"
  else
  -->[true] "Check use emergency hold condition"
endif

if "" then
  -->[true] "emergency is held"
  else
  -->[false] "Check emergency condition"
endif

if "" then
  -->[false] "emergency is not held"
  else
  -->[true] "Check auto recovery setting"
endif

if "" then
  -->[not approved auto recovery] "emergency is held"
  else
  -->[approved auto recovery] "Check Emergency Duration"
endif

if "" then
  -->[within recovery timeout] "emergency is not held"
  else
  -->[over recovery timeout] "Check Control Mode"
endif

if "" then
  -->[autonomous driving] "emergency is held"
  else
  -->[manual driving] "Check use emergency hold in manual driving condition"
endif

if "" then
  -->[true] "emergency is held"
  else
  -->[false] "emergency is not held"
endif

@enduml
```

## Inputs / Outputs

### Input

| Name                           | Type                                       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `/diagnostics_agg`             | `diagnostic_msgs::msg::DiagnosticArray`    | Diagnostic information aggregated based [diagnostic_aggregator setting](https://github.com/tier4/autoware.iv/tree/main/system/autoware_error_monitor/config/diagnostic_aggregator) is used to |
| `/autoware/state`              | `autoware_system_msgs::msg::AutowareState` | Required to ignore error during Route, Planning and Finalizing.                                                                                                                               |
| `/control/current_gate_mode`   | `autoware_control_msgs::msg::GateMode`     | Required to select the appropriate module from `autonomous_driving` or `external_control`                                                                                                     |
| `/vehicle/status/control_mode` | `autoware_vehicle_msgs::msg::ControlMode`  | Required to not hold emergency during manual driving                                                                                                                                          |

### Output

| Name                              | Type                                             | Description                                                                          |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `/system/emergency/hazard_status` | `autoware_system_msgs::msg::HazardStatusStamped` | HazardStatus contains system hazard level, emergency hold status and failure details |
| `/diagnostics_err`                | `diagnostic_msgs::msg::DiagnosticArray`          | This has the same contents as HazardStatus. This is used for visualization           |

## Parameters

### Node Parameters

| Name                         | Type   | Default Value | Explanation                                                                                                                                               |
| ---------------------------- | ------ | ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ignore_missing_diagnostics` | bool   | `false`       | If this parameter is turned off, it will be ignored if required modules have not been received.                                                           |
| `add_leaf_diagnostics`       | bool   | `true`        | Required to use children diagnostics.                                                                                                                     |
| `diag_timeout_sec`           | double | `1.0` (sec)   | If required diagnostic is not received for a `diag_timeout_sec`, the diagnostic state become STALE state.                                                 |
| `data_ready_timeout`         | double | `30.0`        | If input topics required for autoware_error_monitor are not available for `data_ready_timeout` seconds, autoware_state will translate to emergency state. |

### Core Parameters

| Name                                   | Type   | Default Value | Explanation                                                                                           |
| -------------------------------------- | ------ | ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `hazard_recovery_timeout`              | double | `5.0`         | The vehicle can recovery to normal driving if emergencies disappear during `hazard_recovery_timeout`. |
| `use_emergency_hold`                   | bool   | `false`       | If it is false, the vehicle will return to normal as soon as emergencies disappear.                   |
| `use_emergency_hold_in_manual_driving` | bool   | `false`       | If this parameter is turned off, emergencies will be ignored during manual driving.                   |
| `emergency_hazard_level`               | int    | `2`           | If hazard_level is more than emergency_hazard_level, autoware state will translate to emergency state |

### YAML format for autoware_error_monitor

The parameter key should be filled with the hierarchical diagnostics output by diagnostic_aggregator. Parameters prefixed with `required_modules.autonomous_driving` are for autonomous driving. Parameters with the `required_modules.remote_control` prefix are for remote control. If the value is `default`, the default value will be set.

| Key                                                                 | Type   | Default Value | Explanation                                                                                                |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ | ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `required_modules.autonomous_driving.DIAGNOSTIC_NAME.sf_at`         | string | `"none"`      | Diagnostic level where it becomes Safe Fault. Available options are `"none"`, `"warn"`, `"error"`.         |
| `required_modules.autonomous_driving.DIAGNOSTIC_NAME.lf_at`         | string | `"warn"`      | Diagnostic level where it becomes Latent Fault. Available options are `"none"`, `"warn"`, `"error"`.       |
| `required_modules.autonomous_driving.DIAGNOSTIC_NAME.spf_at`        | string | `"error"`     | Diagnostic level where it becomes Single Point Fault. Available options are `"none"`, `"warn"`, `"error"`. |
| `required_modules.autonomous_driving.DIAGNOSTIC_NAME.auto_recovery` | string | `"true"`      | Determines whether the system will automatically recover when it recovers from an error.                   |
| `required_modules.remote_control.DIAGNOSTIC_NAME.sf_at`             | string | `"none"`      | Diagnostic level where it becomes Safe Fault. Available options are `"none"`, `"warn"`, `"error"`.         |
| `required_modules.remote_control.DIAGNOSTIC_NAME.lf_at`             | string | `"warn"`      | Diagnostic level where it becomes Latent Fault. Available options are `"none"`, `"warn"`, `"error"`.       |
| `required_modules.remote_control.DIAGNOSTIC_NAME.spf_at`            | string | `"error"`     | Diagnostic level where it becomes Single Point Fault. Available options are `"none"`, `"warn"`, `"error"`. |
| `required_modules.remote_control.DIAGNOSTIC_NAME.auto_recovery`     | string | `"true"`      | Determines whether the system will automatically recover when it recovers from an error.                   |

## Assumptions / Known limits

TBD.
