planning/behavior_velocity_planner/detection-area-design.md, before:

### Detection Area

#### Role

If pointcloud is detected in a detection area defined on a map, the stop planning will be executed at the predetermined point.

![brief](./docs/detection_area/detection_area.svg)

#### Launch Timing

Launches if there is a detection area on the target lane.

### Algorithm

1. Gets a detection area and stop line from map information and confirms if there is pointcloud in the detection area
2. Inserts stop point l[m] in front of the stop line
3. Inserts a pass judge point to a point where the vehicle can stop with a max deceleration
4. Sets velocity as zero behind the stop line when the ego-vehicle is in front of the pass judge point
5. If the ego vehicle has passed the pass judge point already, it doesn’t stop and pass through.

#### Module Parameters

| Parameter             | Type   | Description                                                                                        |
| --------------------- | ------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `stop_margin`         | double | [m] a margin that the vehicle tries to stop before stop_line                                       |
| `use_dead_line`       | bool   | [-] weather to use dead line or not                                                                |
| `dead_line_margin`    | double | [m] ignore threshold that vehicle behind is collide with ego vehicle or not                        |
| `use_pass_judge_line` | bool   | [-] weather to use pass judge line or not                                                          |
| `state_clear_time`    | double | [s] when the vehicle is stopping for certain time without incoming obstacle, move to STOPPED state |

#### Flowchart

```plantuml
@startuml
title modifyPathVelocity
start

:get obstacle point cloud in detection area;

if (no obstacle point cloud in detection area?) then (yes)
else (no)
  :set last time obstacle found;
endif

:get clear stop state duration;

if (clear stop state duration is more than state_clear_time?) then (yes)
  :set current state GO;
  :reset clear stop state duration;
  stop
else (no)
endif

if (use dead line?) then (yes)
  :create dead line point;
  if (Is there dead line point?) then (yes)
    if (Is over dead line point?) then (yes)
      stop
    endif
  endif
endif

:calculate stop point;

if (stop point?) then (yes)
else (no)
  stop
endif


if (state is not stop and ego vehicle over line?) then (yes)
  stop
endif

if (use pass judge line?) then (yes)
  if (state is not STOP and not enough braking distance?) then (yes)
    stop
  endif
endif

:set state STOP;

:inset stop point;

:append stop reason and stop factor;

stop
@enduml
```

Commit message:

docs: auto/update behavior velocity doc (#741)
* update docs

* update docs

* add more derails

* fix pre-commit

* update dpcs

* update

Signed-off-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>

* add reason for separate module

* update

Signed-off-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>

* update

Signed-off-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>

* [kimura]update readme

* update

Signed-off-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>

* update

Signed-off-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

* typo

* minor fix

* update

Signed-off-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>

* update

Signed-off-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>

* fix precomimt

* fix typo

Co-authored-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: tomoya.kimura <tomoya.kimura@tier4.jp>

planning/behavior_velocity_planner/detection-area-design.md, after:

### Detection Area

#### Role

If pointcloud is detected in a detection area defined on a map, the stop planning will be executed at the predetermined point.

![brief](./docs/detection_area/detection_area.svg)

#### Activation Timing

This module is activated when there is a detection area on the target lane.

### Algorithm

1. Gets a detection area and stop line from map information and confirms if there is pointcloud in the detection area
2. Inserts stop point l[m] in front of the stop line
3. Inserts a pass judge point to a point where the vehicle can stop with a max deceleration
4. Sets velocity as zero behind the stop line when the ego-vehicle is in front of the pass judge point
5. If the ego vehicle has passed the pass judge point already, it doesn’t stop and pass through.

#### Module Parameters

| Parameter             | Type   | Description                                                                                        |
| --------------------- | ------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `stop_margin`         | double | [m] a margin that the vehicle tries to stop before stop_line                                       |
| `use_dead_line`       | bool   | [-] weather to use dead line or not                                                                |
| `dead_line_margin`    | double | [m] ignore threshold that vehicle behind is collide with ego vehicle or not                        |
| `use_pass_judge_line` | bool   | [-] weather to use pass judge line or not                                                          |
| `state_clear_time`    | double | [s] when the vehicle is stopping for certain time without incoming obstacle, move to STOPPED state |

#### Flowchart

```plantuml
@startuml
title modifyPathVelocity
start

:get obstacle point cloud in detection area;

if (no obstacle point cloud in detection area?) then (yes)
else (no)
  :set last time obstacle found;
endif

:get clear stop state duration;

if (clear stop state duration is more than state_clear_time?) then (yes)
  :set current state GO;
  :reset clear stop state duration;
  stop
else (no)
endif

if (use dead line?) then (yes)
  :create dead line point;
  if (Is there dead line point?) then (yes)
    if (Is over dead line point?) then (yes)
      stop
    endif
  endif
endif

:calculate stop point;

if (stop point?) then (yes)
else (no)
  stop
endif


if (state is not stop and ego vehicle over line?) then (yes)
  stop
endif

if (use pass judge line?) then (yes)
  if (state is not STOP and not enough braking distance?) then (yes)
    stop
  endif
endif

:set state STOP;

:inset stop point;

:append stop reason and stop factor;

stop
@enduml
```
