planning/behavior_velocity_planner/stop-line-design.md, before:

### Stop Line

#### Role

This module plans velocity so that the vehicle can stop right before stop lines and restart driving after stopped.

#### Module Parameters

| Parameter         | Type   | Description                                                                                    |
| ----------------- | ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `stop_margin`     | double | a margin that the vehicle tries to stop before stop_line                                       |
| `stop_check_dist` | double | when the vehicle is within `stop_check_dist` from stop_line and stopped, move to STOPPED state |

#### Flowchart

```plantuml
@startuml
title modifyPathVelocity
start

:find collision between path and stop_line;

if (collision is found?) then (yes)
else (no)
  stop
endif

:find offset segment;

:calculate stop pose;

:calculate distance to stop line;

if (state is APPROACH) then (yes)
  :set stop velocity;

  if (vehicle is within stop_check_dist?) then (yes)
    if (vehicle is stopped?) then (yes)
      :change state to STOPPED;
    endif
  endif
else if (state is STOPPED) then (yes)
  if (vehicle started to move?) then (yes)
    :change state to START;
  endif
else if (state is START) then (yes)
  if ([optional] far from stop line?) then (yes)
    :change state to APPROACH;
  endif
endif

stop
@enduml
```

This algorithm is based on `segment`.
`segment` consists of two node points. It's useful for removing boundary conditions because if `segment(i)` exists we can assume `node(i)` and `node(i+1)` exist.

![node_and_segment](./docs/stop_line/node_and_segment.drawio.svg)

First, this algorithm finds a collision between reference path and stop line.
Then, we can get `collision segment` and `collision point`.

![find_collision_segment](./docs/stop_line/find_collision_segment.drawio.svg)

Next, based on `collision point`, it finds `offset segment` by iterating backward points up to a specific offset length.
The offset length is `stop_margin`(parameter) + `base_link to front`(to adjust head pose to stop line).
Then, we can get `offset segment` and `offset from segment start`.

![find_offset_segment](./docs/stop_line/find_offset_segment.drawio.svg)

After that, we can calculate a offset point from `offset segment` and `offset`. This will be `stop_pose`.

![calculate_stop_pose](./docs/stop_line/calculate_stop_pose.drawio.svg)

Commit message:

docs: auto/update behavior velocity doc (#741)
* update docs

* update docs

* add more derails

* fix pre-commit

* update dpcs

* update

Signed-off-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>

* add reason for separate module

* update

Signed-off-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>

* update

Signed-off-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>

* [kimura]update readme

* update

Signed-off-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>

* update

Signed-off-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

* typo

* minor fix

* update

Signed-off-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>

* update

Signed-off-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>

* fix precomimt

* fix typo

Co-authored-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: tomoya.kimura <tomoya.kimura@tier4.jp>

planning/behavior_velocity_planner/stop-line-design.md, after:

## Stop Line

### Role

This module plans velocity so that the vehicle can stop right before stop lines and restart driving after stopped.

![stop line](docs/stop_line/stop_line.svg)

### Activation Timing

This module is activated when there is a stop line in a target lane.

### Inner-workings / Algorithms

- Gets a stop line from map information.
- insert a stop point on the path from the stop line defined in the map and the ego vehicle length.
- Sets velocities of the path after the stop point to 0[m/s].
- Release the inserted stop velocity when the vehicle stops within a radius of 2[m] from the stop point.

### Module Parameters

| Parameter         | Type   | Description                                                                                    |
| ----------------- | ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `stop_margin`     | double | a margin that the vehicle tries to stop before stop_line                                       |
| `stop_check_dist` | double | when the vehicle is within `stop_check_dist` from stop_line and stopped, move to STOPPED state |

### Flowchart

```plantuml
@startuml
title modifyPathVelocity
start

:find collision between path and stop_line;

if (collision is found?) then (yes)
else (no)
  stop
endif

:find offset segment;

:calculate stop pose;

:calculate distance to stop line;

if (state is APPROACH) then (yes)
  :set stop velocity;

  if (vehicle is within stop_check_dist?) then (yes)
    if (vehicle is stopped?) then (yes)
      :change state to STOPPED;
    endif
  endif
else if (state is STOPPED) then (yes)
  if (vehicle started to move?) then (yes)
    :change state to START;
  endif
else if (state is START) then (yes)
  if ([optional] far from stop line?) then (yes)
    :change state to APPROACH;
  endif
endif

stop
@enduml
```

This algorithm is based on `segment`.
`segment` consists of two node points. It's useful for removing boundary conditions because if `segment(i)` exists we can assume `node(i)` and `node(i+1)` exist.

![node_and_segment](./docs/stop_line/node_and_segment.drawio.svg)

First, this algorithm finds a collision between reference path and stop line.
Then, we can get `collision segment` and `collision point`.

![find_collision_segment](./docs/stop_line/find_collision_segment.drawio.svg)

Next, based on `collision point`, it finds `offset segment` by iterating backward points up to a specific offset length.
The offset length is `stop_margin`(parameter) + `base_link to front`(to adjust head pose to stop line).
Then, we can get `offset segment` and `offset from segment start`.

![find_offset_segment](./docs/stop_line/find_offset_segment.drawio.svg)

After that, we can calculate a offset point from `offset segment` and `offset`. This will be `stop_pose`.

![calculate_stop_pose](./docs/stop_line/calculate_stop_pose.drawio.svg)
